Welcome to the podcast for Pretty Survey Methodist Church.
My name is Dudley and today is Thursday, February 26th.
Our reading is from Matthew 21, verses one through 22.
And today we wanna talk about a couple of different things.
We wanna talk about a donkey and we wanna talk about
No word, Hosanna.
Growing up on a farm, I've been around donkeys quite a bit, and I have a memory that's ingrained in my mind.
I would be riding around with my grandfather in the farm truck, windows down, arms hanging out, and we'd pull over, and he would see his donkey out there, and he'd yell out, Hey Jack!
And man, that donkey would go to sing, and he would he-haul, he-haul.
Just a funny time.
I guess he thought it was supper time, and he was really excited about it.
But what is it about a donkey in today's reading?
Donkeys don't seem very majestic, and yet Jesus chooses to ride into town on a donkey.
And this cry of Hosanna, what is it?
It has to be more than something that you yell at a parade.
Jesus was fulfilling prophecy, one that said, see your king comes to you gentle and riding on a donkey.
In Bible times, the donkey could be seen as an indicator of wealth.
Job had around 500 donkeys.
Abraham had many donkeys, and these were both rich men.
And now we see that Jesus in our hearts, in our minds, we know that he truly owns everything.
But when he came to earth, he was meek and lowly.
He was humble.
He wasn't rich in his earthly life.
He even had to borrow a donkey to enter the city, to fulfill this prophecy, to fulfill the triumphant entry
Here's another interesting point.
When kings were going to war, they would ride a war horse.
But in times of peace, kings would ride a donkey.
So in today's reading, we see Jesus coming in peace, riding in on a donkey.
Sure, he's the king of kings and he is all powerful.
But he's also the prince of peace, making peace between God and man.
Even though the people are under the heavy hand of the Roman Empire, Jesus is showing that he's the king, but that he has come to bring peace, not peace that this world sees, a peace that overthrows one government to set another one up, but he is king overall, and he has come to bring peace between God and man through salvation, through death and resurrection.
The same crowd that is cheering him on right now will soon call for the crucifixion.
They did not know the weight of what they were calling for.
Soon they will be calling for him to be taken out through death.
But through that calling and through that death, Jesus is going to provide salvation for those who believe.
So as those who are unwittingly setting up Jesus' death, they are really making way
for his power to shine through his salvation.
Even those that are calling out for his crucifixion would have the opportunity to receive this salvation that Jesus is going to provide.
Now that's true love, but they are not calling for that crucifixion just yet.
As Jesus enters in the city, the crowd gathered is giving him honor.
and giving him praise, they start yelling out this word, Hosanna.
And Hosanna means save us, we pray.
Well, they were probably talking about being saved from Rome's oppression, a political salvation, but that's not what Jesus is doing here.
A political salvation is much too small, much too temporary, and it does not speak to our true need
The deepest need that you and I have is salvation through the death, the burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ.
The deepest need that we have is freedom from sin so that we can be in the presence of the Father for all of eternity.
So as we close today, I want to encourage you.
I want to remind you of a verse in the book of Jude, the very last part actually.
Here is what the sacrifice of Jesus
does.
Here is the deliverance, the Hosanna, if you will.
The scripture says to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you before his glorious presence, without fault, and with great joy to the only God our Savior be glory, majesty, power, and authority through Jesus Christ, our Lord, before all ages, now and forevermore.
Amen.
Jesus, in his weakest moment, did the most powerful thing we could ever hope for.
He came in humility and meekness and love, but was truly operating in unimaginable strength and ultimate victory.
May you be blessed as you think upon these things.
Have a blessed day.